The usleep() function in C suspends execution of the calling thread for the number of microseconds specified in its argument. 
It's part of the unistd.h header and is used for introducing short delays in a program's execution.

The usleep() function takes one argument:

    microseconds: The number of microseconds to suspend execution. 

It returns 0 on success and -1 on error.
While usleep() is still widely available, it has been marked as obsolete by POSIX. 
The recommended alternative is nanosleep(), which provides finer-grained control over sleep duration. 
However, usleep() remains useful for simpler cases where microsecond-level precision is sufficient.

Mutexes (short for "mutual exclusion") are used in multithreaded programming to ensure that only one thread can access a shared resource (like a variable, data structure, or hardware resource) at a time. This prevents race conditions, where multiple threads try to modify or read the same resource simultaneously, leading to unpredictable or incorrect behavior.

In our C script, we are using mutexes to protect shared variables and resources across multiple threads. Let’s break down how and why we are using mutexes in our code:
Key Concepts of Mutexes

    Locking a Mutex:

        When a thread locks a mutex, it gains exclusive access to the shared resource.

        If another thread tries to lock the same mutex, it will block (wait) until the mutex is unlocked.

    Unlocking a Mutex:

        When a thread unlocks a mutex, it releases its exclusive access, allowing other threads to lock it.

    Critical Section:

        The block of code that accesses the shared resource is called the critical section.

        Only one thread should execute the critical section at a time.

1. print_mutex

You use print_mutex to ensure that only one thread can print to the console at a time. 
This prevents interleaved or garbled output when multiple threads try to print simultaneously.

    Why?:

        Without the mutex, if multiple threads call printf at the same time, their outputs might overlap, making the logs unreadable.

        The mutex ensures that only one thread can print at a time.
2. motor_mutex

You use motor_mutex to protect the MotorCall variable, which controls motor operations. 
This ensures that only one thread can modify or read MotorCall at a time.

    Why?:

        Without the mutex, multiple threads might try to set MotorCall simultaneously, leading to inconsistent or incorrect motor behavior.

        The mutex ensures that only one thread can modify MotorCall at a time, preventing race conditions.

When to Use Mutexes

You should use a mutex whenever:

    Shared Resources: Multiple threads access or modify the same variable, data structure, or hardware resource.

    Critical Sections: A block of code must be executed by only one thread at a time.

In your code:

    MotorCall is a shared variable accessed by multiple threads (e.g., actuators_work and data_work).

    printf is a shared resource (the console) accessed by multiple threads.

Potential Issues with Mutexes

    Deadlocks:

        If two threads lock multiple mutexes in different orders, they can deadlock (each waiting for the other to release a mutex).

        Example:
        c
        Copy

        // Thread 1
        pthread_mutex_lock(&mutexA);
        pthread_mutex_lock(&mutexB);

        // Thread 2
        pthread_mutex_lock(&mutexB);
        pthread_mutex_lock(&mutexA);

        Solution: Always lock mutexes in the same order.

    Performance Overhead:

        Locking and unlocking mutexes introduces some overhead.

        Solution: Minimize the time spent in critical sections.

    Forgotten Unlocks:

        If a thread locks a mutex but forgets to unlock it, other threads will block indefinitely.

        Solution: Always unlock mutexes, even in error conditions (use pthread_cleanup_push and pthread_cleanup_pop if necessary).

Best Practices

    Minimize Critical Sections:

        Keep the code inside a mutex-protected block as short as possible to reduce contention.

    Use Consistent Locking Order:

        Always lock mutexes in the same order to avoid deadlocks.

    Check Return Values:

        Always check the return value of pthread_mutex_lock and pthread_mutex_unlock for errors.

    Avoid Nested Mutexes:

        If possible, avoid locking multiple mutexes in the same thread.

    Use Higher-Level Constructs:

        Consider using higher-level synchronization constructs like condition variables or semaphores if they better fit your use case.